Version 2.1 Release Notes
*************************

Version 2.1 has a whole host of new data sources, features, and compatibility
fixes.

.. contents::
   :local:

Title Command
=============

Liquidprompt can now display the currently running command as part of the
terminal title. See :attr:`LP_ENABLE_TITLE_COMMAND` for more information.

Development Environments
========================

Multiple new development environments are now detected and displayed, including
AWS profiles, container environment, kubectl context, Node.js, Ruby, and
Terraform workspace.

Some of these sections are disabled by default, so see their respective config
options for more details and how to enable them:

- :attr:`LP_ENABLE_AWS_PROFILE`
- :attr:`LP_ENABLE_CONTAINER`
- :attr:`LP_ENABLE_KUBECONTEXT`
- :attr:`LP_ENABLE_NODE_VENV`
- :attr:`LP_ENABLE_RUBY_VENV`
- :attr:`LP_ENABLE_TERRAFORM`

Linux sysfs interface
=====================

Both battery and temperature information now support reading from the sysfs
inteface on Linux. This means ``sensors`` and ``acpi`` are no longer required
to get battery and temperature information, and the data source is much faster.

Wireless Signal Strength
========================

A new feature exists to track wireless signal strength, and display the value if
it falls below a threshold, similar to the battery feature. See
:attr:`LP_ENABLE_WIFI_STRENGTH` for more information.

Shell Nesting Level
===================

A new feature to display the number of nested shells. See
:attr:`LP_ENABLE_SHLVL` for more information.

ShellCheck
==========

The whole project is now checked with `ShellCheck`_, which has already caught a
few issues, and will help prevent regressions.

.. _ShellCheck: https://www.shellcheck.net/

Bash-preexec Compatibility
==========================

Liquidprompt now supports running along side `bash-preexec`_. Simply load
Liquidprompt `after` bash-preexec.

.. _bash-preexec: https://github.com/rcaloras/bash-preexec
